[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Eisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, have you played around with GPT5
much?
>> Not really. I've been perplexity pills.
>> Oh, that's your main.
>> Yeah, that's my main one at the moment.
But is it good? I hear mixed things.
>> So, I've used it because I use Chad GPT
every day. It does not strike me as like
obviously better for my uses than like
the 03 models, which I've been very
impressed by because, you know, I want
to establish I'm no hater or anything
like that, but like it did not strike me
as like, oh, this is like an amazing
>> Yeah. This is the thing
>> step function or whatever. You know,
>> it feels like the sort of breakthroughs.
awe inspiring breakthroughs are kind of
behind us and a lot of the progress on
the models feels very incremental at
this point even though people are
spending a lot of time and resources on
doing it. The one thing GPT5 does prompt
me and say, "Oh, that's a great
question. Would you like to follow up
more on that?" But it's like,
>> does it say, "Oh, Joe, you're so smart.
That's such a smart question."
>> You know what it did say? You know what
it did say? I asked a follow-up and it
started an answer with, "Love it." And
then it said, "Love it. Do you want me
to look into that?"
>> Yes, they are very flattering, aren't
they? Actually, that's one thing I like
about Perplexity is it doesn't really
flatter you. It just spits out an
answer.
>> So, anyway, there's so many questions I
have about AI and we talk about the
business a fair amount and a Nvidia and
all that stuff. We actually don't really
talk that much about the pure research
side as much but it's pretty important I
think because I think a lot of people
would agree that if the skills are like
slowing down or if there were a wall or
something like that that might change
some of these business model
calculations etc. So I think it's good
we need to get an update on just sort of
the the state-of-the-art the science of
AI.
>> Yeah. Also, it would be nice just to
understand what's possible in terms of
the AI models and what people are
actually researching, what they're
working towards. Like, is it mostly
about price? Is it mostly about the
output? Is it mostly about energy use?
All those things.
>> All those things. Well, I'm really
excited to say we have the perfect
guest, someone who is an AI researcher.
We're going to be speaking with Jack
Morris. He's currently about to finish
his PhD at Cornell in AI. He's been
affiliated with Meta Professionally, so
presumably he already has a hund00
million pay package in the bank. No,
he's shaking his head. He's not. Uh,
that's a joke. But, uh, Jack, thank you
so much for, uh, coming on OddLots.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. This is
going to be fun.
>> What do you explain to me like what
you're up to because I don't really
understand how it works where people are
they're at a university and they're also
at a company and this isn't how it works
in much of the world, right? People get
their degree and then they get a job. I
get the impression that in the AI world
it's a little fuzzier in terms of one's
affiliations between industry and
education stuff like that.
>> Yeah, that's definitely true. I think it
might be on the way out, but I can tell
you about my situation. So, there's kind
of a public research world and like a
private research world.
>> Okay. And all the academic institutions
do public research and the AI labs like
OpenAI, Anthropic, Google DeepMind, they
essentially do private research where
they have these people in house that are
running experiments and learning more
about their systems, but they don't
publish anything or share any of their
knowledge. And so a cool thing about
getting your PhD right now is you can do
research, write about it, and then
publicize it, like put it online. I
tweet about it. I kind of like can talk
to you about it. And there's a few
places left that'll still kind of
>> the moment you go in house, we're never
going to hear from you again. Acceptance
or something like that. Right.
>> Yeah. I'll make sure they have a clause
in my contract that I can still talk to
Joe and Tracy. Okay.
>> The odds clause. Yes. That would be
important. So when we say AI research or
an AI researcher, what exactly does that
entail? Can't the AI models just
research themselves? Just let them do
it. Yeah, that's actually a very smart
idea and like people are really worried
about that actually. Like if we get to
the point where the AI can improve
itself into
>> Yeah. then it sort of gets smarter and
then it improves himself again and it
ends up being this kind of exponential
improvement that ends up with
>> all of our demise.
>> But I think right now it's not quite
there yet. Like maybe you can talk to
Chad GBT.
>> That's good news, Joe.
>> Yeah. And good news for me, too, because
it means I can still get a degree and be
gainfully employed. But I think it's
it's still helpful, but we still need
like humans to make these improvements.
And in terms of what the actual
day-to-day work looks like, I think it
really varies. Like there are some
people working on trying to make the
models run faster or trying to make the
hardware that runs the models run
faster, more efficiently. There's people
that try to work on the data like what
should we train on more coding problems
or more textbooks or more Reddit posts
what works best to make the models and
then there's a lot more people working
on different areas of the stack like
training algorithms. I kind of have my
own little niche.
>> What's your niche?
>> There's this old field of information
theory from like the 20th century where
they talk about bits like a zero or a
one is a bit and you can add them up and
have kilobytes and megabytes. And so
I've been trying to think about what
that means in like the chat GBT world.
If you train a model on a certain number
of bits, how many bits does it actually
learn? And like can you look at the
model and figure out like if you have
one slice of the model, how many bits
that is and stuff like that. So maybe
the easiest way to explain is if you had
for some godforsaken reason to use chat
GBT as like a flash drive like you you
had a certain set of data and it had to
memorize all that data. Like how much
data could it actually store?
>> That's the kind of area I've been
working in. And then you know once
you're there you kind of realize we
could do this or maybe next semester if
we have time we could try this other
thing. And so there's it kind of
branches out and there's a lot of little
problems that you can try.
>> I mentioned GPT5. It seems fine to me.
It does not strike me as like you know
because actually so the first time I
used Chad GBT I was genuinely blown away
like most people. And then actually I
was pretty blown away by the 03 models
in part because of how well they could
do document search and it superior to
Google search in many respects and also
just the organization of a lot of
unstructured data etc. Like I didn't
have like some oh my god wow moment of
with GPT5 it's like seems like how do we
measure whether AI is getting better all
the time?
>> Yeah that's a that's a huge question.
Well, let me ask you, okay, let me ask
you actually a more specific question.
How do the entities that test AI models
as their job or as their function? What
is the formal testing process look like
to rank the quality of AI models?
>> Okay. Yeah, that's that's more
tractable. We can we can start there and
then we can talk about 03 and GD5. So,
there's essentially two ways people do
this kind of model evaluation. The main
one is just by testing them on different
data sets. So for example, there's this
data set called SWEBench that's a bunch
of software engineering related coding
problems and they all have a human
written solution and tests and so you
can ask GBD5 can you write the code for
this and then run the test and see if
it's right. And still the models are
pretty bad at that. I think they can do
about half of them. They're very hard.
They're like entire days of work for
professional software engineers. But
when a new model comes out, they can
say, "Oh, look, we actually got a higher
score on Sweetbench." And there's a ton
of different data sets like that. So
when GBT5 comes out, they say, you know,
it's better at these types of coding
tests. And a big one that specifically
OpenAI has been advocating for is math.
Like they did the International Math
Olympiad. And they said essentially GBT5
scored at the level of the best high
school mathematicians, which is pretty
cool. But you raised a good question of
how does that actually map to real world
usage? And I think this is like a really
hard problem that people still haven't
figured out.
>> Does anyone try to capture that sort of
like Janice Seiqua I guess when it comes
to AI models? Is one of the tests asking
it to I don't know come up with a stupid
limmerick or something.
>> Yeah, there are a lot of tests like
that. There's some creative writing
benchmarks and some poetry related ones.
But I think you point out something
interesting that for example I mostly
use Claude
>> for anthropic and I think Claude does
have this
something to it that's like a little bit
different and it's very difficult to
characterize. It's just sort of the way
it speaks to you and the way it thinks
of itself is
>> I like it a lot better but I don't know
how you would design like a data set
that can really capture that.
>> The second way they do the evaluation is
by they call it's ELO scores like in
chess. So they for example ask the two
models to write a limmerick and then
they have humans rank which one is
better and they make this kind of ladder
of ELO rankings for models. So I think
right now Claude or GBT5 or maybe the
Google model is top on this ELO ladder.
>> The algorithm made famous in the social
network that Mark Zuckerberg used to
rate the hotness of his uh colleagues.
Still the workhorse model for comp
evaluation.
>> That's some good trivia, Joe. Very good.
And no comment.
>> Well, I assume just on the hard number
evaluation,
people are also ranking these on data
usage, energy, that sort of thing as
well, right? Speed. Speed would be an
obvious one.
>> Definitely. The AI companies like to use
price as a metric, which is kind of
interesting because there's a lot that
goes on behind the scenes, including
just sort of like
>> free money that drives the prices down.
But they also do benchmark speed. And I
think you make a good point that the
benchmarks can be pretty misleading.
Like for example, there's a bunch of
recent open- source models that came
from different Chinese AI labs that have
really really high scores on certain
benchmarks, but people kind of think
they're not as good for real world usage
for whatever reason.
>> I've seen people talk about this. Isn't
part of the problem with testing AI or
evaluating AI that a lot of these
problems exist in the real world
already? Right? You see this a lot and
people are always finding this which is
that here is an AI model that is amazing
at math on the math olympiad and yet it
gets tripped up by questions like which
is heavier a pound of steel or two
pounds of feathers and it'll say that's
a trick question a pound of steel weighs
the same as two pounds of feathers which
is clearly like it was clearly then been
trained in some sense to recognize these
steel versus feathers thing or whatever
it is I forget if it's steel but it als
also clearly can't measure whether one
or two is bigger.
>> Yeah, that's a really good example.
I think they kind of successfully
include these kinds of things in more
rounds of training data and so every
time a new model comes out they kind of
patch little holes that appeared in the
previous models. So you're pointing to
this like they probably started with the
classic riddle that's like a pound of
bricks or a pound of feathers and
they're equal but then like the models
got that wrong and so they added to some
part seem like a very efficient way to
achieve intelligence like oh yeah we
should have included that. Oh yeah we
got to include that trick. Oh yeah we
got to have every little thing keep like
going that does not speak to me of a
line towards something that we would
call anything resembling human
intelligence.
>> I definitely agree. I I think one
counter example is people said this for
a long time about self-driving cars.
Like everyone was really excited about
them for a long time and then they kind
of didn't really work like eight or so
years ago and there was this period
where they were saying, "Oh, the models
can't do green cones. We're going out
there trying to take videos of green
cones and yeah, they can't do snowball."
So you're saying eventually you can just
patch your weight and understanding.
>> I'm saying that it worked for them and
so it might be possible. But in the case
of language models, there's something a
little more interesting happening
because we now have two ways to learn.
If you guys are ready, we could we could
get into something a little technical
which I think gives you some insight. So
there's essentially two ways you can
teach machines to learn from data. One
is called supervised learning where the
computer will copy what you did, which
is like basically what we're talking
about now. And the other is called
reinforcement learning where the
computer just does something and then
you give it a reward if it does
something well. And so for a long time,
like the original chat GBT was mostly
just trained with supervised learning,
like it would just copy the text from
all of the internet. And so the best it
could ever do is emulate Reddit posts
very well. And there was a tiny bit of
reinforcement learning, but people
didn't know how to do it right. And then
you mentioned this 03 model, which is
kind of in some ways like a big jump.
Like it made the models much better at
math, much better at certain things. And
the way they did that is actually
through reinforcement learning. So they
found out a way to kind of like let the
model think for a while and then give it
a reward when it like gets the answer at
the end. It's kind of scary.
>> Yeah. When you say give it a reward, is
it like take a cookie
>> paying robots? So she's excited about
that.
>> No, genuinely like what is the reward?
You just tell it it did a good job,
right?
>> And you just give it like a higher
number and that makes it happy.
>> All right. I I I'd get a little bit
worried when we're like giving it
cupcakes or something like here you go,
good job.
>> Just going back to the intro, you know,
we were talking about how it feels like
a lot of the progress on AI models is a
little bit more incremental. And I guess
it's hard to tell whether that's just
personal bias because now we're used to
them and the sort of wow moment has
passed, but what does it feel like to
you in terms of improvements? Are we
seeing the improvement cycle accelerate
or decelerate? At this point,
>> I think it's kind of like the market
where it's like always it gets faster
for a little while and then it feels
like things have slowed down and the
progress is never quite in the areas
that you expect. As one example, people
really thought this year was the year
when the assistants would start being
able to act like actual assistants like
the year of agents. People actually
coined that term, I think, like the year
of agents. And it really it didn't
happen for whatever reason. Maybe it
will in the next three months, but the
agents are still pretty bad, the ones
that you can use. But they did get way
better at competitive math. Like now
they can do these like worldclass proofs
that they couldn't do before. So it's
almost unpredictable like which areas
the AI will kind of conquer next. But it
does feel like progress is continuing.
>> Actually, what happened with agents? I
have I've never had a successful agent
experience. Even basic things like come
up with a list of every past OddLots
guest. Oh yeah. And put it in a file or
something like that which is there's an
RSS feed that exists for oddlots. This
should be really straightforward all
around and then something will happen or
it'll get lazy. It'll like here's 15 and
>> what is actually and this is thought
leaders love this stuff. They love
talking about the year of agent. So what
actually happened with agents? Maybe
they'll get there but what do you what
is the roadblock there? I don't think
there's any conceptual roadblock. Like
there's no reason why you couldn't
collect data for that and train them
either in a supervised way or using
reinforcement learning. It just hasn't
happened yet. So I think maybe behind
the scenes it turned out that the
problem was harder than people thought.
Like getting data from all those
scenarios is really hard. And there have
been some stories from like people that
I've heard of that found these little
companies in San Francisco and they
build these tiny environments for the AI
labs to do reinforcement learning on for
agents. Like for example doing a
calendar they'll build like a little
calendar app but make it have rewards so
you can do reinforcement learning and
they can just sell that for like
hundreds of thousands of dollars. So I
think the progress is ongoing behind the
scenes like there's a whole ecosystem
built around it. it just hasn't really
manifested in the products that we use.
>> I was going to ask how much of the
difficulty is you know the actual
development of the models the thinking
part versus just getting them to plug in
seamlessly with other applications.
>> Yeah, I think I think the second thing
is probably the biggest barrier in terms
of time like it just takes a really long
time to figure out what data you need
and collect it properly and actually
train the models on that data. But at
the same time, there are people like me
who are trying to work on better like
conceptual frameworks for training the
models. So to go back to the the 03
example, doing reinforcement learning on
chat GBT like that seems to me like a
huge breakthrough. Like we didn't know
how to do that before. It unlocks all
sorts of doors and ways to train the
models. So even if maybe you don't think
that model was that much better than the
previous one, it seems like it will give
us huge improvements in the future.
[Music]
So, you mentioned at the intro that it's
possible, hopefully you'll get a close,
but you might end up in a situation
which you go to work for some Frontier
AI lab and we never hear from you again.
Or you just post cryptic tweets like,
"Oh, you have no idea what's coming or
oh, it's going to be so over or
whatever." You know, it's very annoying
the way they Yeah. Yeah. It's very
annoying the way they all tweet. It's
possible. Talk to us about like why not
work on an open source project? And this
is of course what people talk about
deepseek and a lot of the Chinese models
that the US competes with. A lot of
those are open- source presumably you
could keep coming on oddls over and over
again. Why? Like what is even the case
for the best and the brightest to work
on closed sourced frontier models?
>> Yeah, that it's a really hard question.
Like I've I've struggled with this in my
own personal decision- making. I was
originally thinking, oh, I'd love to
become a professor and mentor younger
students and get a whole like group of
these ideas going and start working on
similar related problems to the stuff I
was talking about. And I still think
that would be fun, but there's a big gap
in terms of the things we can do at
Cornell and the things that you can do
at OpenAI. like they just have like
crazy infrastructure for training models
really easily and over and a ton of
really good data and so I think as that
gap has widened I felt like a lot of
what we're doing is like kind of
devising these toy scenarios where we
can study interesting things but I feel
a bit disconnected from the real like
progress of humanity you know like if
you really agree that this is like the
biggest problem of our time I don't want
to say it's like the Manhattan project,
but like what it's was more like trying
to go to the moon in the '60s. The space
race, it's kind of like a space race
going on in these different private
labs. You want to be a part of it. Like
there's crazy energy in that. It has
huge implications for the future of
society. So I think I am interested in
participating in that. My big question
is like if you think that the
reinforcement learning thing was the
most recent big scientific breakthrough
like 01 and then 03, what's next? And
then like where will that actually be
happening? That's kind of what I'm
thinking about right now. And
>> just on the data point, I was reading
your excellent Substack and you argued
that there's probably an upper bound to
what you can get out of a given data set
and at some point like the training
starts to look pretty similar, right?
And the data becomes the differentiating
factor. How important are data sets to
AI research? And I guess like how do you
go about finding really cool ones and
what's left? Because I feel like,
>> you know, using the space race analogy,
everyone has been running so fast on
this. It feels like all the data sets
must have been explored by now, but I
guess they haven't.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think this is really
getting to the heart of what people are
trying to figure out right now in all
these different labs. So I think you're
pretty much right that all of the public
data sets we have are pretty much
used to train 03 or GPT5 or whatever. If
there is a really good website that
should have been scraped and downloaded
into the model, it should probably be
used. But there apparently is a much
larger amount of private data than
public data. I mean you all work for
Bloomberg, so I'm you're probably
intimately familiar with this. But if
you think about the different AI labs
that exist, they actually now do kind of
have different data related modes. Like
XAI, they have all of the Twitter data
that's basically impossible to get
elsewhere. ChatGBT now has all of the
user conversations with ChatGBT, which
are really useful. Claude has a ton of
coding data that other people don't
have. Google has YouTube, which some
people think might be like the next
source of making really good models. And
none of those things are really
included, at least not much, in in
today's models. This is really important
like once a lab builds some sort of base
whether it's anthropic encoding or maybe
cursor encoding even though they're not
like a core lab etc. like they become a
source of their own data that literally
nobody else has.
>> Yeah actually cursor is a great example.
So they are very technical. They have
really smart people. They're very small.
So they haven't quite scaled to at least
in terms of the number of people. But I
think about this like every time I was
like like when I've played with this
like this is good, this is bad, I'm
constantly teaching their model to get
better. Right.
>> Right. Right. Right. They're in a
problem where they have the data, they
just have to take the right algorithms
and scale it up to train the model to be
as good as Claude is. But that actually
seems a lot more feasible than other
companies that have no data and want to
train good models. Even if they know
how, it seems very difficult. M how
closely are AI researchers working or
talking to I guess other parts of the AI
ecosystem. So you know chip makers maybe
cloud providers that sort of thing. Is
there a lot of dialogue or not really?
>> I think certain people talk all the time
to the chip makers. Like there's a big
community of people you know the AI
models all run on GPUs and there are a
lot of people that are getting really
good at writing fast GPU code. It's
called kernels. And all those people who
work on kernels talk to the chip makers
all the time. Like Amazon's making their
own chips. Google has their own chip.
Now all the hyperscalers are making
chips. And I think they're all trying to
talk to the people that actually write
the fast code that runs on chips to
figure out I think they call it hardware
software code design. Like everyone's
kind of getting together and trying to
figure out what the best way is to
design the next round of GPUs.
>> So you mentioned Okay. Google might have
an advantage because it owns YouTube and
there's just tons of obviously just tons
of data in there. So, one way you could
get access to the YouTube data is to
literally be Google and own it. But
another way that maybe you could get
access to YouTube data is operate in
China where there are no laws about this
type of thing or no there's not beholden
to US copyright and just sort of scrape
it all. Again, since most of the Chinese
AI labs are open source, why isn't this
just a huge advantage for the Chinese
labs that they're really not going to
be, hey, open AI, they get sued by the
New York Times, all these Deep Seek is
isn't having to deal with all these
headaches.
>> Yeah, I think the American AI labs will
probably do things behind the scenes
that they wouldn't tell you about to get
good data.
>> That's one solution. just don't. So
yeah, like I think they wouldn't release
the models that are potentially trained
on scraped or copyrighted data, but if
that's the way to get better math
olympiad scores, then people will I
think I would guess do that. But you're
right that like the Chinese the Chinese
model makers can just sort of take all
the books that they can pirate from the
internet and train on them and they're
not violating any laws and they can
release the model to the public and it's
all fine. which is honestly great for us
because then people like me could
probably download a model that's better
than we would get otherwise.
>> What was your impression of DeepSeek
when it came out and now?
>> I was pretty surprised at how much of a
splash they made. The model is really
good and I think a lot of people are
building on it. Um, including me and
like most people that are at AI
companies that aren't super super big
are building on DeepSeek. But it it was
surprising like what a huge deal it was
to people. Like my mom's asking me about
Deepseek. I think my grandma knew about
DeepSeek and she barely knew about Chad
GBT. So that was
>> that's when you know it's gone
mainstream when your grandma starts
asking you
>> and there there was nothing else so far
I think in the AI space that's made
quite that much news.
>> But it sounds like what you're saying is
that it's a very good model but that on
the actual specs from your perspective
it didn't quite deserve as much
attention. like it was good but like in
your view it's not so good that everyone
needed to be talking about it at the
time.
>> Yeah, I think it's really useful because
they released all their model weights
and they said exactly what they did to
train it. Although they didn't say what
the data was, but it gave me the
impression they're maybe 6 to 12 months
behind the American AI labs in terms of
how well they can do the training and
stuff. But it still was a pretty big
update for me to know that wow, there
are a hundred people that don't have
PhDs working at a Chinese hedge fund
that are training these like cutting
edge models. Like it is incredible and
they work very hard. They're very good.
[Music]
Do you have pressure or do you feel
pressure? Do AI researchers in general
feel pressure to consider monetization
when they're researching things or is it
you know mostly still curiositydriven
that sort of old school Silicon Valley
we're improving the world kind of thing
or is it much more mercenary given that
all these big companies seem to be
competing in the same space? Yeah, I
think that over time it's gotten
harder and harder to do things that are
just like cool ideas or seem cute but
don't have any necessary application
>> and things are getting closer and closer
to products. You know, even like the
language models that power chai GBT, I
was working on those before Chad GBT and
it they had some uses but also they're
intellectually interesting and like fun
to build. But now if I came up with a
better way to train Chad GBT, that's
like a multibillion dollar innovation.
>> The stakes are higher.
>> Yeah. I'd be like an asset to like the
United States government or something if
I knew how to do that. So I guess it
depends on what kind of problems you
work on. Like I'm more interested in
understanding how things work. So it
becomes a bit less financially dire. I
think
>> that 6 to 12 month gap between and what
was that? That was a January deep sea
moment.
>> Yeah. Although really like everyone
should it was in December that they
first got attention then for some reason
really hit in January. Is that a
sustainable gap? Is there something
either in access to data, access to
talent, access to compute, access to
chips, whatever, access to energy that
in your view will allow US frontier labs
to maintain some sort of 6 to 12 month
gap for a while.
>> It's pretty unclear to me. I think there
are different beliefs you can have. you
can believe that the ideas and the
people are really the thing that
differentiates the models and in that
case I think we haven't so far seen a
lot of like the top US AI researchers
going to work at Chinese labs so that
seems stable you could think that chips
really matter and in that case the chip
race is really happening between big
American companies like I think actually
China has a pretty big deficit coming up
in terms of like the GPUs we're
exporting or you can think that the data
matters and I guess actually any of
these point in the favor of the US. I
think if you think the data really
matters, maybe the the data they gather
through like deepseeek.com usage is
really good and they can use it to like
bootstrap a better model. But I think
the American companies really do have an
advantage. Like you all might have heard
this story just as an anecdote.
Apparently at Anthropic, they've been
buying and scanning thousands of old
books for several years. So, they have
this division, I think they're based in
New York, that buys like shipping
containers full of old manuscripts, cuts
off the spines, and puts them in these
scanning machines, and then they turn
them into like really high quality text.
And so, I'm noting Claude has this like
weird aspect to it. Maybe part of the
reason is they've gathered like
trillions of words worth of like old
book data over many years, and that's
pretty hard to replicate elsewhere. So,
I think that Head Start really does mean
a lot. Hm. What are you most excited
about at the moment? The book thing
sounds very cool, but what what is
getting all your your attention right
now?
>> Thanks for asking. I think I mentioned
before I'm really trying to figure out
what's coming next. There are some
obvious things like we can get computer
usage data and train better agents or we
can get more coding data and make them
better at coding or writing GPU code or
whatever. But like what are the
non-obvious advancements? And my
personal opinion is that the next like
round of improvements in AI models will
come from some type of personalization
and online learning which means like
models that one are trained like per
person or per company. So like you could
think of like like Chad GBT is the same
model that gets served to everyone. So
it has to store information about random
restaurants in like countries you never
go to. But instead if you had a chatbt
that's specific to Bloomberg or specific
to your work, it might be able to like
use more of its brain to do work for
you. And then the second thing is if it
was updated every day. So like if you
ask it to make your OddLots calendar
Yeah. or RSS feed and it you're like no
that was wrong like you did it wrong for
this reason this reason and you try
again tomorrow it will still break
tomorrow because it doesn't like
continuously improve its capabilities so
yeah I think that's the direction things
are going
>> I've heard people talk about this now
granted models are getting better over
time but you know people might compare a
coding model to a beginning software
engineer and say the coding model is
better but that software engineer is
going to start getting better the next
day they're on the job and every day for
the rest of their career, they're
probably going to be a better software
engineer than they were the day before.
Whereas at least that version of the
model will not be better. That is that
right? Is that seems like an issue that
people talk about in your world?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think this is a big
problem. It's like we have to wait 6
months for the chat GBT 5.1 to come out
and then maybe they'll include your
problems as the training data and so
maybe it'll get better, but it might
not. And instead, I think people need to
think about ways to do that update more
dynamically. Like every time you talk to
it, or maybe every night when you go to
sleep, the model kind of like gets to
work and studies what it was talking to
you about and crafts better tests for
itself and then learns and then when you
wake up, the model's actually better.
The other big question that I have and
it is kind of related to this especially
when we're talking about AI replacing
humans and certain forms of labor is
that like do we need really really
advanced AI like in other words like
there is a lot of again the existing
models are extremely impressive like in
your view do we need to get a lot better
technically for them to have economic
impact and since these are in many cases
businesses at the end of the day, is it
necessary that there's so much work
being done towards advancing the cutting
edge?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's a great question.
Like we could have really good interns
without ever getting better scores on
the math olympiad. Like that's not
necessarily something that we ever had
to go after. I think part of the reason
for that is the AI labs are engaged in
this kind of neckand-neck race to have
the smartest model. But I totally agree
that AI could be economically
transformative without having a higher
ceiling in terms of what it can do. It's
more like it needs to be more consistent
or like dependable than actually
smarter.
>> This might be a weird question, but once
you've made a sort of foundational
improvement to a particular model, how
easy or difficult is it to rewind if you
need to? And one of the reasons I ask is
because, you know, some people have been
complaining that they've been training
chat GPT to, I don't know, be their
boyfriend or whatever, be their
therapist.
>> This is a legit topic in my opinion.
>> And then it gets upgraded and all of
that training suddenly disappears and
the personality of the model changes.
>> Yeah, that was a really interesting
story. So I think the model before GPT5
was 40 and they said that they thought
internally like all the scientists and
coder people that the new model was
superior in every way. It gives you
shorter responses. It's a bit nicer.
It's much smarter. And then people got
really upset because they had spent so
much time talking to the old model that
they felt like they'd experienced like a
serious loss in their life.
>> Joe would miss the the love it
>> love it. No, but for real, this is
unironically this strikes me as another
example for open source, which is that I
if I'm going to form a I don't see I'm
45. I'm too old for that. But if someone
is going to form like some sort of
friendship with an AI model, I don't
want it to be at the whim of Sam Alman
deciding like, oh, there's an upgrade. I
would like to be friends. It's also
weird to be friends with the model that
I know that I can run in perpetuity
>> and it will never change.
>> Yeah, I think that's definitely a good
argument for why open source is
important and if you ever fall in love
with a model, you should fall in love
with an open source.
>> That's good life advice, practical life
advice. It
>> is really good life advice. Well,
speaking of open source, you know, I
know programmers tend to like open
source for obvious reasons, but are
there any downsides to open source for
AI specifically?
>> I think if you're running a company,
there are a lot of downsides potentially
to open source. If you have some brand
new fancy way of of doing computation
inside the model that's actually better,
you might want to keep that information
to yourself. And when you release the
model to make it runnable, you have to
release all the code to run the model
which might contain like your secrets.
And so I think that's why people are
hesitant to do it. The other reason is
because when you release the model, it
actually contains quite a lot of
residual information about how you
actually trained it. Like you might be
able to infer what the data set was and
what the training process was or even
reconstruct the entire training data set
given just the weights of the model. And
so if you're worried about people
finding out that a certain thing was in
your training data, you probably can't
release that model open source.
>> That reminds me, how much of an AI
researcher's day-to-day life is just
like looking at other model, other
people's models and trying to like I
guess pull them apart and figure out how
they were made and sort of work
backwards.
>> That definitely happens from time to
time. I think usually the scientific
process is something like you start with
other people's models and you run them
and you see what happens and then you
decide on some part of that process that
you think could be improved or could be
explored further and you make some tiny
changes to it and then you run it again
and you compare like numbers or you make
graphs of what happened before and what
happens after. So actually quite a bit
of it like for example the GPT2 model
from open AAI which was I don't know
2019 or something their first kind of
really yeah larger scale chatbot like
I've spent I don't know hundreds of
hours kind of like playing with that
code and talking to the model and stuff
like that.
>> So thank goodness for open source for
that reason. I joked in the beginning
about you having a hund00 million
salary, but for real, as you think about
your career, and I hope you do get a
hund00 million salary, but as you think
about your career, what excites you, and
how much is it money? The reason I think
about this is like there are huge checks
out there, but maybe some things are
more maybe achieving AGI is more excited
than making an ad network more
efficient. Maybe something there's
something more exciting than shaving off
a billionth of a second in terms of a
trade execution. All these things like
how much is it about exploring the
frontiers of science, the new space race
landing on the moon versus the paycheck?
>> It's all about the paycheck. I'm just
kidding. No, no, not at all. Yeah, it's
funny you ask. So, this hasn't happened
to me, but just in the past 2 weeks or
so, a good friend of mine has been
dealing with this problem because she
got an offer on the order of like tens
of millions of dollars per year from a
big AI company and she wasn't sure if
she wanted to work there. And I think
originally she said no and then they
doubled her offer and then like it's the
exact same amount of cash but twice as
much per year for a certain number of
years. And you know, we were talking
amongst ourselves like, what does this
even mean at this point? Like you're,
you know, a 28-year-old computer
scientist that's been coming from a PhD,
so you make more on the order of tens of
thousands of dollars per year. I
honestly think personally the marginal
difference between having like 10 and 20
million is like very low. Like I don't
even know what too. This is I this is I
this is my experience for me making 10
million 20 million has basically been
the same to me. Yeah. and
congratulations.
>> But so yeah, I think there's more of a
desire to like be there the next time
something really interesting happens and
that kind of supersedes the money. Like
any of these places will pay you what's
like a really good salary to live on.
And so it's actually not a big
consideration. It only becomes
complicated when you have like one
option that's going to pay you like 40
times more than the other option. And
then things get confusing. No, this is
this would actually just thinking about
making 20 million. No, I think about
this like
>> cuz I think about okay, what if you have
this great salary
>> and you're like can live very easily in
New York City and have a really great
life or you can make 10 times that which
is a stupid insane salary but you don't
really like your job but it's so much
money that strikes me as like not a
trivial life you know you only live one
time it's like a diff so it could be a
difficult question.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But you can remind yourself
that like the job you take once isn't
the job that defines you forever. Maybe
maybe the right thing to do is to take
it for a few years but not the whole
time and then go do something.
>> Everyone says they're going to do that.
>> Yeah.
>> And then they get locked in.
>> Speaking of insanely large salaries, we
know that people are earning these
salaries because they're like star AI
researchers. How much does personality
play into where you want to go work?
Would you want to go work somewhere
specifically because there's an
absolutely amazing researcher? Yeah.
>> Or does it tend to be again more about
the paycheck, maybe more about the data
that's available to you, or maybe more
about the specific project that you're
going to be working on?
>> Yeah, I think different people assign
different amounts of weight to each of
those things. In my experience, like
most of the people I know come from
academia, which means they already kind
of gave up more of a salary to do study
things more deeply for several years.
So, I think people that I know are more
biased against money, but like people do
care about that, but I think that the
ego thing really matters. And so, some
people want to feel like they're very
important and they're working on a
problem that matters. One way some
companies are able to pull researchers
away from other companies is by saying
we'll assign you more importance in your
role and we'll give you
>> we'll give you a really big title.
>> Yeah, exactly. Like like seriously the
title is like okay maybe before you were
like a researcher now you get to be like
a head researcher you get to have people
under you or you're a chief scientist
and all these things do matter to
people.
>> It's a very good book about pursuing a a
mission in the realm of like a driven
visionary even when it's commercially
>> Joe. Yeah that's right. No I think about
this all the time. It's like, do you
want to work for Ilia or do you want to
work for Sam? And which one is the Ahab
and which one is just trying to make an
honest living selling ads? I find this
to be like a genuinely interesting uh
interesting question for any individual
to have to reckon with in this career.
>> Oh, absolutely. And sometimes it can be
very difficult to tell.
>> Jack Morris, thank you so much for
coming on. Please pursue a career that
will allow you to come back on OddLots
>> or insert the odd lots clause
>> when you're negotiating your $und00
million salary.
>> Yeah. or take the 50. Say, you know
what? I'll 50 million, but let me I
don't need the 100 million. 50 million
would keep you out.
>> Yeah, that would be fine with me.
>> All right. Great. Well, thank you so
much.
>> Yeah. Thanks.
>> Thank you so much. That was great.
[Music]
Tracy, I think about that sometimes.
Like what if you got like an insane
salary? Like that you just couldn't you
would be insane to say no to but like I
don't know that's I mean it's not our
problem but like wouldn't that be fun,
you know? It's like, "Oh, but you're
going to be working on ad optimization
or whatever, and you're not going to be
there when they land on the moon, but
you got paid 10 times more than the
people at the base station working on
landing on the moon." That strikes me as
like kind of a tough life choice.
>> I think you're using up a lot of brain
power and energy on a problem with what
you said is not yours.
>> I will never have. That's exactly right.
>> No, that conversation was really fun.
Uh, nice to talk to an actual researcher
who's doing stuff in the space. One
thing I thought was very interesting was
this idea that everyone gets excited
about a specific improvement in AI.
Yeah. And then it seems like that
particular one doesn't materialize and
instead something else emerges as like
the big breakthrough. So instead of
agents, we have math
>> and math which none of us will ever
need. I would really like for an agent
to do something simple. I'm going to a
city, book my trip or whatever. Or
change my flight. Oh my god, I tried to
change flight recently. change my
flight. Here's my information. I don't I
would like that. I do not need the math
olympiad. I am very impressed. I don't
need it.
>> Also, I am now very very intrigued by
reinforced learning and how you actually
reward the computers for doing good
stuff. I feel like actually that would
be a really interesting area to mine
which is motivating motivating the
models to do better. Yeah, I've thought
about that like in chess like how do the
how do the computers know they want to
win? Yeah. You know, like why do they
care? You know, all these Anyway,
>> why are they here? Why are we here?
>> That's the thing with AI conversations
>> gets existential fast.
>> You know, one thing we didn't talk about
which I am interested, no one really
talks about AI safety anymore. Have you
noticed like the like very little like
for better or worse, you don't hear
people just all money and they don't
really talk about will the AI kill us
all one day? But one thing I did wonder
about so when deep sea came out one of
its breakthroughs was it showed the
whole chain of thought right you could
see that which prior to that open AI or
chatubt's chain of thought model didn't
show you that right
>> and it does strike me that if there are
certain things that are for safety
reasons or whatever held back or they
don't want to do this the nature of
competition means all the guardrails are
coming off eventually like that's if
there's some guardrail you have on
someone's going to open source whatever
it is and you're they're going to all
give it Yeah, both on the guardrails and
on the data usage point as well.
>> All right. Well, shall we leave it
there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracee Alaway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Jack Morris. He's jxmop.
Follow our producers Kerman Rodriguez at
Kerman Arman Dash Bennett at Dashbot at
Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks. For more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where the daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk about $20 million salaries
that will never be ours, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
[Music]
Yeah.
Heat.
[Music]